[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Gaia's own Jay Weidner
is with us to talk about his
new series coming out titled
"Hollywood Decoded."
Today, we'll talk about the
power of film to program
and inform society, and
a few of his favorites.
And we're going to get into
some pretty juicy, fun, wacky,
and also very
intense content here.
So first of all, I
wanted to find out--
just tell us a little
bit about Jay and Jay,
the Jay and Jay show.
Because I think Jay has
already come out on Open Minds.
Jay Dyer has already--
>>JAY WEIDNER: Jay Dyer and
Jay Weidner are now on a show
together, which should
be quite interesting.
He's more a professorial
type, and I'm
more of a glib kind
of person, so I
think it's going to be
an interesting dynamic.
We both have pretty close
views on what movies are
and what symbols are, and
why they're so important.
The juxtaposition of symbol into
film, and what film really is,
and why it's so important, and
why we love movies so much.
And all of us love
movies, really.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And so both of you are-- that
is the-- it's kind of obvious,
Hollywood Decoded.
And so tell us about the genre
film and kind of the time frame
over which these
movies were made
and such, so we kind of
get an overview of what
the show is going to look like.
>>WEIDNER: Well, the movies
take place probably from those--
I think the earliest one
would probably "2001."
That was '68 So they're
mostly after '68.
I think that in 1968,
there was a break
in Hollywood and the
way that they did films.
Up until '68, around that
time period, you know,
it was "My Fair Lady,"
"Doctor Zhivago."
These were the big films.
There were these big, epic
films that didn't really
have much heart.
They were just big.
And they weren't intellectually
challenging or socially
or culturally
challenging either.
And I think starting
in '68, '69,
Hollywood had a rebellion as
the boomers began coming in,
and then the
mid-boomers-- like Kubrick
was in between the silent
generation and the boomers,
and he was a revolutionary.
And these movies
became more realistic.
Violence became more realistic,
sex became more realistic.
Everything became more
real, and a lot of people
were shocked by movies
like "Bonnie and Clyde"
and "The Godfather," and
all these movies that
started after '68.
But I think it was a
golden age of filmmaking,
and I just loved--
all movies of the
'70s, I just loved.
And in the late '60s,
and even into the '80s
until Hollywood realized
that this rebellion
had to be stopped.
And that was about
'82 when they realized
the rebellion of the
Hollywood boomer directors
had to be stopped.
And you could argue that
Stanley Kubrick's "2001" is
the father of all these things.
Because if you talk to these
directors like Scorsese,
Spielberg, all these
people, Brian De Palma, that
made all these great
films, they will tell you
that going to see
the movie "2001"
was a super liberating
experience, because here
was finally a film that was
not using standard narrative
devices to tell its story.
It was using abstract
devices, abstract ideas.
And that, I think, became
the major influence
for all the cinema
until essentially '82,
'83 when I believe the
CIA took over Hollywood.
>>REGINA: A lot of
evidence for that.
And it's interesting you say
that, because what you were
speaking about before, I mean, I
wouldn't say they lacked heart.
I would say they were
emotional in nature.
When we think back to the
movies of the '30s, '40s,
'50s, and '60s, it almost had
some kind of either family
drama, even if you got into
some of the really good stuff
like James Dean's movies that
had a lot of deep emotion
and heart and drama to them.
But it was all
emotionally based.
And what you're talking about,
it's almost as though we took--
we moved away from emotions
into the intellect.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, we did.
And I think "2001" gave
everybody permission
to do that.
And a lot of great
films came out of that,
and are still coming out of it.
And again, this
whole thing is '68
is also the time of
the Chicago riots,
the Vietnam War, the moratorium
against the war in Vietnam.
All this stuff.
Feminism.
Feminism, environmentalism
was rising up.
We were facing
racism again that we
kind of pushed under
the carpet, but now we
were facing it again.
>>REGINA: And are again.
>>WEIDNER: And we are again.
Because we're now--
>>REGINA: Oh my God.
There's a fabulous
movie that just came out
that I think I'm trying to
talk you and Jay into doing,
which is called "Get Out."
>>WEIDNER: Oh, I'm
going to go see it.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
Transhumanism and
racism all at one time,
because it's just calling it
what it is, a dark comedy.
>>WEIDNER: You're seeing
a lot of the return
to those same kind
of values that we had
in the late '60s coming
out right now again.
And we're living in very
revolutionary times,
so you're going to see very
revolutionary movies, I think.
>>REGINA: That make sense.
I mean, as Robert Phoenix
says, and has said repeatedly
in my interviews with him,
we're under the same basically
astrological influence
that we were then.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
And you're starting to
see things happening
that are very interesting.
And you know, like
"Westworld" on HBO
was a very interesting show.
So I think that movies
really did transform right
around that time
period, and they've
been transforming ever since.
And some of the
movies that we're
going to talk about today,
like "Chinatown" and "Twin
Peaks" and David Lynch's
films especially,
were the first to really examine
the dark underbelly of America.
And I think, you
know, we started
in the '50s with
film noir, which
was the beginning of
Hollywood's examination
of the dark underbelly.
But then we kind of lost it,
and we went kind of frivolous
in the '60s until it came back
in the late '60s and the '70s
with kind of a fearless
examination of our life,
what we are as Americans.
>>REGINA: Well, we just had
also all these assassinations
that had occurred at that time.
You know, Martin Luther
King, Kennedy, year 1968.
We were protesting the war.
We were having to wake up
to the hard facts of life
at that time.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
And the establishment is telling
us that Lee Harvey Oswald did
it, and it was pretty
obvious that he didn't.
And Sirhan Sirhan did it,
when it was clearly obvious
that he could not have fired
the kill shot, because it came
from one inch behind
Bobby Kennedy's head,
according to the coroner.
And he was five
feet in front of him
with a .22, which really would
be pretty hard to kill someone
with.
So I think that that's
what was going on,
and it was a revelation that
our parents did not share in.
And so they hated
our movies and quit
going to the movies for
the most part at that time.
>>REGINA: Well, they were still
in the emotional generation
that enjoyed the love story
that they were raised on.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
>>REGINA: And we're
watching "Taxi Driver,"
and like you say, "Godfather"
one, "Godfather II."
You know, these films
that were incredibly
challenging and violent
for their generation.
>>WEIDNER: They were.
>>REGINA: We were young
and could embrace it.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
And again, like, "Taxi
Driver" is a great film
at challenging the dark
underbelly of America
and the prostitution rings
with underage children,
and the whole thing.
And people didn't want to even
think that these things were
possible at the time.
And here they were,
being exposed in cinema.
And then you take
Roman Polanski's film
"Chinatown," which I now think
is the greatest film ever made.
Past "Vertigo" and
"Citizen Kane" and "2001."
On my recent viewing
for Hollywood Decoded,
I was blown away by the maturity
and the view of corruption,
both within the family structure
and also the larger society,
how--
>>REGINA: Institutional
corruption.
>>WEIDNER: John Huston
is destroying California
so that he can own
the water supply.
And this is all true stories.
>>REGINA: These are all things
that have come to pass now.
>>WEIDNER: Absolutely.
They're all true.
>>REGINA: We're
going to drill down
into each of these
movies in a minute,
but can we back up for a
little bit with little Jay?
So when you were a
little kid-- now you
don't have all of these
heady, intellectual films.
Did you like movies
as a little kid?
>>WEIDNER: Well, it's funny.
I liked some movies,
but I was a--
I'd always thought that cinema
was kind of a bastard art,
you know?
And I was very much into art,
and literature, and opera,
and theater, and painting.
And I could speak for
hours about all of them.
But I always thought--
I was suspicious of
cinema, because it just
seemed like a bastard art.
And then I went to
see "2001," and I
realized when I walked out
the door that you really
could create art with
cinema, and it was possible.
And then I got interested in it.
And now I realize that,
yes, it's a bastard art,
but it bastardized the best.
In other words, it
took music from opera,
it took its music from opera,
it took its acting from theater,
it took its storytelling
from literature,
it took its lighting and
qualities from theater.
Staging, costumes.
That all came from theater.
But it wasn't theater.
It was something different.
And I think that
what movies were
was the culmination of all the
great Western art forms put
together so that a really good
movie looked like you were
looking at a classical
painting or you
were watching a great theater
from the late 1900s when
they had the great theaters
in New York and Germany.
And the music.
The closest thing
to classical music
that is being written
today is movie music.
And--
>>REGINA: True.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
And so I think that it
is, in fact, the art
form of the 20th century and
the 21st century, and going on.
And movies are just going to
get more and more interesting
as we get more and more
techniques perfected
that are going to
bring storytelling
to even more complex levels.
>>REGINA: Well, and as we
open up our understanding
of the knowledge of
alternate realities, which
is being very heavily portrayed,
alternate realities, and I
mentioned earlier,
transhumanism,
the meeting of different realms
and star systems and all this,
as our imagination
expands, it will expand.
I have to say one
thing though too.
Having been raised
in that same era,
I was always peeking
over my parents' shoulder
at the drive-in.
I wanted to see all
the love stories.
[LAUGH]
I mean, as a female, I loved
all of this, all of these.
I liked the really intense
ones like "A Man And a Woman,"
you know?
Things where you had
drama going on and loss
and exploring the emotional
realm of my own young being.
And I think that might be
maybe a little more classically
feminine in some ways,
although a lot of girls
are into sci-fi as well.
We were naturally
rooted in that,
you might say, from the era.
>>WEIDNER: I think it's normal.
>>REGINA: We were still wearing
dresses to school at that time.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
But I still think it's normal.
Women are more touchy feely,
and men are more idea-oriented.
I think that men--
I think that the reason if
you go to see a horror film,
80% of the audience is
men, is because it's
like doing high-risk sports.
Can this movie really
scare me to death?
Am I man enough to put
up with this, right?
And I think a lot
of horror films
are men kind of
self-initiating, right?
You know, you're there and
you're watching this thing
and go, I want to turn away.
I do not want to watch
what I'm watching.
Yet I cannot turn away.
I cannot turn away, but
I must turn away, right?
And you get that dichotomy
going in a good horror film.
Every male that likes a horror
film likes it for that reason.
>>REGINA: Yeah, sure.
Well, do you see any
representations right now,
for example?
You kind of have to do this
off the top of your head,
because it's not in what
we're here to discuss.
But an example where
higher principles and love
are coming back together
with the intellect
and creating these new
hybrid types of creatures
in filmgoing.
>>WEIDNER: I wish there
was a film like that.
It sounds great.
Will you write it for me?
>>REGINA: Well, I mean,
I'm always intrigued
with that sort of thing.
>>WEIDNER: I did
like the movie "Her."
Did you see that?
>>REGINA: I did see it.
>>WEIDNER: I thought that
was an interesting film
about transhumanism and love,
and where we're probably
going if we're not careful.
>>REGINA: It was
interesting, because looking
at it from the
man's point of view,
he just wanted to be told
what he wanted to hear.
And that's what
women had become.
>>WEIDNER: That's exactly right.
>>REGINA: It wasn't
an actual other force
that you could say can either
oppose or collaborate with.
He just wanted everything
handed to him the way
he wanted it handed it to him.
>>WEIDNER: All men like that.
That's what all men want.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And you can see
that the world is
kind of rapidly going that way
in terms of its dysfunction.
>>WEIDNER: I think movies have
allowed to blame for that.
I think they've set up this
woman that you cannot really
ever find.
How she's so beautiful--
>>REGINA: Like "Her."
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, exactly.
Like what's her name?
>>REGINA: Just no
body to deal with.
>>WEIDNER: Scarlett
Johansson, right.
I mean, you know,
every man would
love to have Scarlett
Johansson, but guess what, guys?
You're not going to get her.
[LAUGH]
It's just not going to happen.
Just like you're
not going to get--
I forget the guy-- the
guy who plays "Thor."
Who's the actor
that plays "Thor?"
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
Hemsworth.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, Hems--
>>REGINA: Chris Hemsworth.
>>WEIDNER: 99% of
the women are never
going to get a guy
that looks like him.
So all of our ideals have been
kind of destroyed by movies.
>>REGINA: Hollywood
has really skewed
what we accept as reality.
And I think that part
has been damaging,
because the brain doesn't
know fact from fiction.
It only knows its
own experience.
>>WEIDNER: It's really the
dark side of Hollywood,
and it has hurt us.
And we have this
great ideal that's
not going to be
able to be achieved.
So you have to kind of lower
your standards in order
to be with a human being.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And the men don't--
especially with the
notion of virtual reality
experiences coming out,
why would any teenage guy
choose a real girl that he
gets in arguments with now?
>>WEIDNER: Right.
That really worries me.
>>REGINA: It worries me too.
It's a little tricky.
But we just have to
say it's another phase
of human evolution.
So because these films
that you just talked about
are of this kind of
intellectual, subversive range,
are you going to go all the
way up through modern times
now and start catching
up with what's
happening now,
even after you say
there was a blank after '82?
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
Because what's happened is
because of the technology
has come down to where now I've
got a camera for $3,000 that
eight years ago would have
been $70,000, $80,000.
And actually, the
quality on the $3,000
is actually better
than that quality.
And everything is being
reduced down in price.
A guy like me or somebody could
make a film, a low-budget film,
and still have it
look really good.
And I think that that's where
the interesting stuff is coming
out, is from the independents.
I don't think the studios--
although the studios have
made interesting films
like "Get Out" of
here is interesting
and "Doctor Strange"
was very interesting.
And there are good
films coming out.
But the studio still
has constraints,
political constraints
mostly, and they're
afraid to go too
far out on a limb.
So they're, like,
going a little bit out.
Like, I just watched in the
last James Bond movie recently,
"Spectre."
Dang, it started out,
and the first half, I
thought I was watching
one of the best films
ever, because there's
a secret society that
was represented by an octopus,
which was very interesting.
And it was taking over
everything in the world.
And Bond had to stop it.
And of course, the
last 40 minutes
is just hitting
and shooting and--
>>REGINA: Pretty much.
I felt the same as you did.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, I
was, like, really
disappointed in the ending.
But man, I thought for
the first 40 minutes,
we were going to have the
greatest movie ever made.
>>REGINA: Well, there you go.
And also we're talking-- that
answers my question myself
from a little bit ago My
favorite bond film ever
was the remake of
"Casino Royale."
>>WEIDNER: It was the best.
It was by far the
best Bond film.
>>REGINA: Because
it had passion,
it had genuine passion and
love at the heart of it,
and then all the complexities
of life surrounding it,
and politics and secrets.
>>WEIDNER: Well it was.
And the reason that that was a
good film, in my point of view,
is I never really liked Bond,
because he's a psychopath.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>WEIDNER: I mean, he kills.
He's got a license to kill.
Right?
Who has a license to kill?
I mean, only a psychopath would
want to have a license to kill.
>>REGINA: And without
even raising his pulse.
>>WEIDNER: Right.
It doesn't raise his pulse.
And he has sex with
any woman he wants.
He doesn't care about them.
>>REGINA: Doesn't
raise his pulse either.
>>WEIDNER: Doesn't
He's just this flatline guy.
And I never really
cared for him.
But then when Daniel Craig
came in, I said, whoa.
And he fell in love.
>>REGINA: Fell in love and
it was all on the table.
>>WEIDNER: It was great.
[LAUGH]
And then the ending
was just, whoa.
>>REGINA: Wow.
Oh, yeah.
>>WEIDNER: It was a great movie.
It was the best Bond movie ever.
>>REGINA: I think so too.
>>WEIDNER: Daniel
Craig really kicked off
the series great with that.
>>REGINA: He did.
OK, symbolism.
When's the first time
you started really
noticing symbolism in films?
Because you guys are
going to talk a lot
about symbolism in your series.
>>WEIDNER: Right.
Well, yeah.
I guess it would be "2001"
with the black monolith.
You know, vexed for
years of what that really
was supposed to mean.
And I finally am actually the
first one to figure it out.
It's exactly the shape of
the Cinerama movie screen
for which the movie
was projected on.
So it's an inside
joke by Kubrick,
that the thing that reveals
the truth about human genesis
and evolution is
the movie screen.
[LAUGHTER]
It was a very--
very inside joke
by Stanley Kubrick.
And also it's black.
And we know from
alchemy that everything
comes from the nigredo, from
the black stone, all right?
And that's the beginning of
all alchemical transformations.
The very first thing
you see in the movie
is the black screen, which
is really the monolith, OK?
And then the movie starts.
And then the apes
are transformed
by this mysterious
black monolith, which
seems to inject IQ, sort of like
the monkey learning channel.
And then later, it transforms
the astronaut Bowman
into the Star Child.
And it's when he passes
through the monolith
that he is transmuted
into the Star Child.
And so that got me
thinking about symbols.
And I realized that why
symbols are so important,
I like to say that if a picture
is worth a thousand words,
a symbol is worth a
thousand pictures.
OK?
And the reason is because
symbols are rooted deep in us.
So what is a symbol?
And let's take HAL,
the computer in "2001."
It's a big red eye, right?
An ominous-looking red eye.
And when you look at it, you get
this ominous kind of feeling.
Well, why?
Why does a symbol of HAL
create an ominous feeling
in the gut of the viewer?
Well, it's because for thousands
and thousands of years,
we hunted with spears out
in the middle of the woods,
and the last thing
you wanted to see
was a big red eye staring at
you through the underbrush,
because it usually meant you
had about two seconds to live,
all right?
And so that's in us.
It's built into our DNA.
So symbols are built
into the DNA itself.
And it's usually about life and
death, and struggle, and birth,
and separation, and
coming back together,
and all of these things
are what it's about.
And so when you inject the
right symbol at the right place,
it hits the viewer in a
way that you can't really
get something else to work.
And so when somebody
knows how to use symbols,
then the film has a tapestry
of a much deeper meaning.
>>REGINA: And you love Kubrick.
>>WEIDNER: I do.
>>REGINA: And you love Kubrick--
he's one of your favorites.
And you've done some work
very, very closely-- not just
paralleling, but speaking of his
work and referring to his work
very specifically.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah, I
have two shows on Gaia.
Kubrick's Odyssey I and II.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And-- well, I was going to
go one direction with it,
but let's talk about why
Kubrick in particular--
and also his use of symbolism.
But also, you say he was making
this film "A Space Odyssey"
as R&D for the Apollo fakery.
So because that's your
area of expertise,
let's go ahead and launch
into that a bit for people who
don't--
>>WEIDNER: Why not?
Why not?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>WEIDNER: OK.
So in 1964, in early 1964,
the Department of Information,
the US government, for
reasons unexplained,
decided that to create dossiers
on the top five Hollywood
directors.
It was Billy Wilder,
Sydney Pollack--
I can't remember all of them.
They were big in the
'50s and early '60s.
And they added one director who
had not really had a big hit,
and he was young, and his
name was Stanley Kubrick.
And it was very
odd that they would
put this guy on this list.
Why are were looking for him
to begin with is another story.
Another aside,
before I go on, is
that while he was making "Dr.
Strangelove" in 1962, '63,
the Air Force refused to let
him see the plans for the B-52
bomber.
So Kubrick bought a bunch
of aviation weekly magazines
and put the whole
inside of the B-52
together through photographs
that he had seen.
And so one of the people in
the Pentagon called up Kubrick,
and they said, we want to come
on your set and see your B-52,
see if you broke any
national security secrets.
And Kubrick's, like,
completely, you know, sweating
and, you know, really afraid,
because he doesn't really
like the US government anyway.
That's why he's
shooting in England.
And they land,
and they come out,
and they see the set for the
B-52, and they say it's exact.
It's exact.
And they go back and
they file a report.
OK, I believe--
>>REGINA: So now he's
a person of interest.
>>WEIDNER: Mm-hmm.
And I believe that--
oh, and they also
said that the flying
B-52 in "Dr. Strangelove"
was the best flying effect
ever, and they could not
believe it was done with a
model in a process called
front screen projection.
That's very important
to remember that.
OK.
So I believe that
this Department
of Information, creating
a list of directors,
and the Air Force coming
to see Stanley Kubrick
is not a coincidence.
I think they were
looking for someone
who could direct the faking
of the Apollo moon landings.
I'm not saying they
didn't go to the moon.
>>REGINA: I know.
We can talk about those
theories in a moment,
because there are, like,
three different ones.
OK.
>>WEIDNER: OK.
So they just did
it for insurance.
And another thing I have to
say is out of all these five
directors that they
were collecting data on,
the only director
who had actually
rooted in the technology
of cinema was Stanley.
The rest had all
come from theater.
And they had technicians
in cinema working for them.
Stanley knew how
to run the camera.
He knew how to light.
He knew how to do
everything on the set.
He didn't even need anybody.
He could do everything.
Frequently, he did, in
fact, when he was younger.
And so this was a guy
who knew the tools
of filmmaking as opposed to
just how to direct an actor.
OK?
And so I think he got elected
to be the guy, through the "Dr.
Strangelove"
footage, and then he
used "A Space Odyssey"
as R&D to figure out
exactly how to do it.
And he also got a carte
blanche contract, which
no filmmaker has ever gotten,
that he can make whatever
films he wants for the rest
of his life, and no one can--
he has final edit
on all of them.
No one in history.
Not Orson Welles and Spielberg.
No one has ever had
a contract like that.
And thirdly, NASA gave Stanley
two $2 million lenses in 1972
so that he could shoot "Barry
Lyndon," the candle scenes.
>>REGINA: Yeah, now
why would that be?
>>WEIDNER: Exactly.
[LAUGH]
$4 million in lenses for free?
That's a pretty
amazing deal there.
>>REGINA: Well, since we've
opened the can of worms,
go ahead and explain why he
did that in your opinion.
>>WEIDNER: Well, I think
he did it for many reasons.
One, he wanted to rub
shoulders with the elite.
And the people at NASA, he
was really impressed with.
And Arthur C. Clarke knew them
all, and he was like, you know,
a young man, and Arthur C.
Clarke was in his late 40s.
And here's the greatest science
fiction writer of all time,
and Kubrick was like,
you know, probably
like a little kid a
little bit, right?
And I think we know from his
movie, "The Shining," which
was also about the
Apollo program,
we know that he
came to regret it.
And he maybe even told
a friend who died,
may have been killed
because of it.
That seems to be intimating
in the "The Shining."
>>REGINA: That he had made
the fake moon landing video.
But let's talk
about why that would
have been made to begin with.
>>WEIDNER: Because
imagine you've never
ever landed on the moon before.
OK?
With people.
What if that lander had clipped
a rock or a cliff or something?
Coming in and started
tumbling and got destroyed.
The whole world would have sat
and watched two astronauts die
in front of them for five days.
It really would have been the
most horrendous experience
the human race would have ever
collectively gone through.
They could not take
that chance, OK?
So they faked it.
I didn't say they faked
going to the moon.
I said they faked--
>>REGINA: Because
a lot of people
misunderstand what
you've said on this.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
I want to make that clear.
I did not say they faked--
in fact, I think they've
gone to the moon many times.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean, if you
go into the deep space program
that everybody's
worked on here--
>>WEIDNER: Exactly
if you to Deep Space.
>>REGINA: --it would
appear not just humans,
but other species in there too.
>>WEIDNER: And I think that
they did that to hide--
that in other words, they
said they spent $30 billion
on the Apollo program.
That money went into the
Secret Space Program,
and they only spent
maybe $100 million
making the fake
landings and things.
And it really wouldn't be very
hard to make the fake landings.
I don't care what anybody says.
>>REGINA: But you think they
not only went to the moon once,
but maybe more, but they had
to have this, you're saying,
cover video so it could, on
a public relations level--
>>WEIDNER: Yes.
>>REGINA: --it could make us
comfortable with the notion we
have this capability.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
That's right.
And you know--
>>REGINA: Without seeing,
you know, carnage.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
Nixon was president.
It's not exactly
like he is the kind
of a guy that likes to tell
untruths every once in a while.
So you know, it's not
that big a stretch.
I would have done it
if I was president.
I would have.
I wouldn't have wanted
to put the world
through that possibility or not.
And you know,
there's other things.
Edgar Mitchell went to Bob
Masters, a friend of mine who
was a master
hypnotherapist, in 1974,
and asked him to hypnotize him,
because he could not remember
what happened on the moon.
I also knew the psychiatrist
who debriefed the astronauts.
And I asked her what
the debriefings were
like, and she said, Jay,
it's the strangest experience
of my life.
I can't remember any of them.
So they've all been mindwiped.
And I believe that Buzz
Aldrin was also mindwiped.
And I believe
"Clockwork Orange,"
the Kubrick film that
followed "2001," is
about how they mindwiped you.
And he wanted to
know, and they said,
how are you going to stop
these guys from talking?
And they said, oh.
We've got this little program.
And then he want, oh.
I think I'll make
a movie about that.
So I think that Kubrick
faked it to rub shoulders
with the elite, but
also to guarantee
this contract that was
ironclad, that no one could
screw with his films.
And furthermore, nobody cared
about what "2001" was really
going to be about,
because it was just an R&D
program for the Apollo program.
He got to make any
film he wanted.
>>REGINA: Plus he got
some fancy lenses.
Are there any other
points of evidence that
suggest that he and NASA
were in bed together?
>>WEIDNER: There is
the very odd fact
that there are three films
that came out after "2001"
and the Apollo
landings, which seemed
to indicate that
somebody in Hollywood
knows that Stanley Kubrick
was involved in it.
And those three films
would be "Being There"
with Peter Sellers--
>>REGINA: Now relate
that, the two.
>>WEIDNER: OK.
So "Being There," Peter Sellers
was in two of Kubrick's films,
two of his best films.
And he plays Chauncey the
Gardener in "Being There."
And there's a scene, a
completely throwaway scene,
which doesn't make any
sense, where Chauncey
is walking around
Manhattan at Christmastime,
looking at store windows like
Macy's and things and displays
that they have.
And the soundtrack is
playing the "2001" theme,
the jazz theme by Deodato,
which is dah, dah, dah.
It's jazz, right?
And right when that
theme-- dah, dah--
the famous "2001"
scene starts up,
Peter Sellers is looking
through a Macy's window
at a toy setup of Apollo 11.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>WEIDNER: All right?
There's one.
Two is "Toy Story."
Buzz Lightyear is
an astronaut toy,
but he thinks he's
a real astronaut.
And all the other
toys make fun of him,
because he thinks
he's real, right?
He thinks he's a real
hero, went to space.
And one day, Buzz is
walking past a TV that's on
and he sees an ad for
Buzz Lightyear as a toy,
and he realizes he is a toy.
And this sad Randy
Newman music comes on,
and he crawls up this banister,
and he looks out the window
at the moon, and he's all sad.
And then he says,
I am an astronaut.
And he leaps to take off, and
he falls and crashes, right?
Well, the wallpaper
behind Buzz in this scene
is exactly the
floor pattern that's
under Danny in the famous
scene in "The Shining"
where he reveals his Apollo
11 t-shirt or sweater.
Now what's
interesting about that
is that when Rodney Ascher, the
creator of "Room 237," which
is a film about "The
Shining" where I'm partaking
with a bunch of other people
with theories about what
"The Shining" is
about, what he did
his crowdfunding for that
movie, the very first person who
put almost all the
money into "Room 237"
was the guy who put all
the money into "Toy Story."
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>WEIDNER: Then the final
movie's a Bond movie,
"Diamonds Are
Forever," in which he's
at an Area 51-like facility,
trying to escape from people
chasing him for some reason.
And he tumbles-- stumbles
into the moon launching set,
and they're driving
around in the moon buggy,
and he runs through
the set, you know?
And everybody's chasing him.
And it's like, clearly,
they're telling you there too.
So there's three movies where
they're clearly telling you
that they know that the
moon landing was faked,
and two of them, they're
connecting it to Kubrick.
>>REGINA: The film
"Chinatown," which,
because I knew we were
getting ready for this
and you liked it so much,
I re-watched recently.
And you start.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
I watched it again recently
too for Hollywood Decoded.
I have to say that that
film, it could have slipped
into cornball at any moment
with the Hollywood detective
in the '30s, you know?
Sam Spade and all that.
And it never did.
It always held its
own and its maturity.
And you got to wonder what
the screenwriter, Robert Towne
was thinking.
Because he was trying to explain
the story of the history of Los
Angeles and the
Water Wars, but he
was also trying
to tell the story
of the corruption of the
leadership of Los Angeles.
And to partner with
Roman Polanski and Jack
Nicholson is a very odd thing.
>>REGINA: Very odd.
And yet he was involved
with John Huston, who's
playing this part
that we're going
to speak of in the
movie as real daughter
in real life, Anjelica.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
And Jack Nicholson is
dating Anjelica Huston
at the same time as
"Chinatown" is being made.
And there's a famous line in the
movie where John Huston looks
at Jack Nicholson and
says, (GRUFF VOICE) are you
having sex with my daughter?
You know.
>>REGINA: And it is interesting
considering the plot,
that that was going
on at the same time.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
And the incest and
the pedophilia,
the corruption that
they're really trying
to expose in "Chinatown."
You know, I had an uncle
who was an FBI agent.
Right before he died,
which was about '76,
we were talking about movies.
And I said, well,
you're an FBI agent
with 40 years of experience.
What do you think is a film that
would really show me, you know,
what this world is really about?
And he said "Chinatown."
He said, watch it over and over.
It's revealing a lot of things.
>>REGINA: It is, the monopoly
of certain power families
and the corrupt
influence they have
over the land, and ultimately,
over the lives of people.
They'll go to any means to
essentially obscure an issue
in the media, for example, just
like this Water Wars situation.
And at the same time
in the end, you're
left with only one feeling.
You can't win
against these people.
They win.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
And the word Chinatown, you
could just change it out
with corruption, and it
would work perfectly.
Every time they say
Chinatown, they're
saying this corrupt world
or this is all corrupt.
And it's like, remember,
it's Chinatown.
Remember, the police
guy says [INAUDIBLE]??
>>REGINA: That's right.
It's Chinatown.
>>WEIDNER: Remember,
it's Chinatown.
And you can--
>>REGINA: There's
nothing you can do.
>>WEIDNER: Nothing
you can do about it.
>>REGINA: There was a moment in
the movie that really gave you
the chills, and a different
one that gave me the chills.
And share yours first.
>>WEIDNER: It's
near the end when
Jack Nicholson is talking
to John Huston and he says,
you're an old man.
You've got tons of money.
You've got everything you want.
What are you doing this for?
And John Huston looks at
him and goes, (GRUFF VOICE)
I want to own the future.
And that's how these
rich guys think.
>>REGINA: Well, because I
think that's a motivation
a lot of people can understand.
We do all these shows
on conspiracy and power,
about the power elite and the
hidden hand, and so forth.
But when it comes down to it,
it seems like that is always
the one factor.
You have everything you can
have in the material world,
but you're corrupted by a
dark influence of some kind.
And there is nothing
left but power, right?
Power for power's sake.
Some kind of-- in their own
minds, domination and supremacy
above everyone else.
>>WEIDNER: What I really like
about "Chinatown," which I also
didn't notice until
this last time,
is that Polanski's using
these amazing water
motifs through the whole movie.
There's the pool with
the eyeglasses in it.
And then everybody's like,
can I make you a drink?
Or somebody swirling
a glass, right?
And he's taking this
kind of fluidity
of a natural substance which
Los Angeles does not have any.
And Los Angeles is corrupting
the entire western United
States, stealing
all of their water--
>>REGINA: To quench its thirst.
>>WEIDNER: Exactly.
For what?
For entertainment.
For the entertainment industry,
which was the only business
really in Los Angeles outside
of agriculture at the time.
And what kind of
a waste that is.
>>REGINA: Well, and all the
other lakes around there
that it's drained
dry, sucked dry.
>>WEIDNER: Mono Lake is gone.
>>REGINA: Mono Lake.
>>WEIDNER: All those--
>>REGINA: Owens Lake
went first, you know?
And I mean, it is a fascinating
story, the corruption involved
in the watering of Los Angeles.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
So what's the line that
you found so chilling?
>>REGINA: Oh, it
was in the end when
it was revealed by Faye
Dunaway that her daughter was
her sister.
And it is a violent scene.
>>WEIDNER: Mother,
daughter, mother--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
"She's my daughter,
she's my sister.
She's my daughter,
she's my sister."
Until finally, she looked at him
and said, don't you understand?
And so he confronted John
Huston at another point.
And John Huston very
smugly, like a person
who knows power and knows
he's beyond the law,
beyond the reach
of anything, said--
the line was, under the right
circumstances and at the right
time, we can do anything.
And in this case, he
raped his daughter.
And so she raised her daughter
as her sister to the public.
But this theme came out
again in another movie
that's on this list.
And I wanted to--
because you've spent
so much time in the
world of conspiracy
and in the world of
symbolism, and looking
into secret societies and
satanic cults, and so forth.
And Hollywood certainly
has reflected some of that.
They have their own society
and rituals around that.
The whole notion of
right there, on film,
showing this man saying, we
can do anything under the--
if you give us the right
time and right circumstances,
we can do anything as men.
And so the rape of
his daughter, it
shows me this thing that is so
taboo and hidden in our culture
that we don't like to speak
about that affects roughly one
in four children, three, four,
five, depending on the sex,
is right there.
He put it in the film.
Why?
What was this-- was this
to draw our attention to--
why did he do this?
>>WEIDNER: Because I think it's
important because it's there
and nobody wants
to talk about it.
And it is, in some ways, the
whole point of power politics
is to have sex with
anyone that you want to.
And I think that something
happens to men, especially men,
they get older and they
have a lot of money.
And the wife isn't looking
as good as she used to look,
and they could buy
anything they want.
And why don't I just
do what I want to do?
And I think once you make
that step, it's like--
>>REGINA: You're over
onto the dark side,
and then anything is
possible after that.
>>WEIDNER: It's like an
alcoholic taking a drink.
Once you've done it,
you can't go back.
>>REGINA: But let's look
at it in a larger sense,
because we're going to go
into another movie that
also has that at the core.
And that is, there's an
innocence in children.
And when you look at the
whole notion of these people
in satanic groups
and so forth, they're
only of the material world.
They don't have inherent
spiritual development.
They don't look to
the spiritual aspects
of what life has to offer for
really any of their upliftment,
joy, or expansion.
So once you're limited
to the material world,
it seems to me that when you
have been degraded far enough,
the only thing you have
left to suck off of
is literally the light
and innocence of children.
>>WEIDNER: That's exactly right.
And most of these
people do not even
believe that there's a
spiritual world at all.
They don't care.
They just don't
even care about it.
They only care about
the material world.
In school, we're only
taught that there's just
a material world.
We're not taught anything else.
So you can't really
blame these people
for thinking that all
there is is material.
And so then they-- all they do
is go after material and power
and money.
>>REGINA: There's another
thing, and it came out
in another film I just
watched very, very recently.
And this is the notion
that there is evil.
I look at it this way.
You have higher realms-- you
have us here on this stage,
and we can resonate
and choose our path.
We have higher realms that are
interfacing with Earth realm.
We have lower realms that
are resonating with it.
And the lower realms
are material in nature,
and they suck off of the
material and the life
force of our Earth realm.
OK?
And so in the film "Twin
Peaks," David Lynch
managed to get all
of those themes in.
The underworld sucking on
these characters, incest
once again, showing how
dark that world can be.
Go ahead and talk
about "Twin Peaks,"
and what you think
the value in it was.
>>WEIDNER: "Twin Peaks" is
the most revolutionary TV
show of all time.
And I don't mean that it's,
like, a great TV show.
It has flaws.
But the way that
it was presented,
both the way the Pacific
Northwest was shown,
it was the beginning
of showing the Pacific
Northwest in this kind of
eerie, spooky fashion that
continued on.
"X-Files" and
"Northern Exposure,"
and a bunch of films that
came out after "Twin Peaks."
And the reason it's
called "Twin Peaks"
is because what
Lynch is showing you
over and over
throughout the series
is that we live in
this fierce duality.
Everything is a fierce duality.
Laura Palmer, who's the
whole reason she gets killed
at the beginning of "Twin
Peaks," and the whole story
is a fulcrum based on that
murder, she has two diaries.
Her cousin is a
doppelganger, which
is a dead lookalike for her.
Everybody has a
double in the film.
>>REGINA: Kind of
the good in the dark.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
And Bob the villain.
Well, his name can be
spelled either way.
Bob can be spelled both ways.
So everything's a duality, and
he's playing these dualities
off of each other.
And it's all quiet
and behind the scenes.
If you're not noticing
it, you won't see it.
But the way that
he lines shots up
and the way that he puts
characters together,
he's constantly telling you that
what you think this person is
is not what this person is.
Laura is not the cheerleading
homecoming queen.
She's being run by criminals
in a prostitution ring
across town and
across the border,
interestingly, because there's
a border there in the town.
So everything is split between
Canada and the United States.
And Washington state also
is a bifurcated state
where the mountains, you know,
leave the west half all green
and the east half all dry.
So even the state of
Washington where it was filmed
is a bifurcated state.
So the whole thing is
this whole bifurcation.
And Lynch, Lynch is a genius.
And it's a subtle
genius, though.
It's not a genius
overtly like Kubrick.
It's very subtle and dark.
There's a very dark genius
about the dark world
that lays underneath.
>>REGINA: Well, and it's
all colored differently.
You can tell it's a lower
realm of consciousness,
a lower realm of spirituality.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
And Cooper, who's the hero of
"Twin Peaks," he's doing yoga,
he's meditating.
He's very nice to
everybody he meets.
He never has a bad word to say.
He's totally fascinated
by all the people
that he's around, by the trees.
He's like this angelic force
through all these demons.
Everybody's a demon but him.
And of course, at the
end of the series,
he becomes a demon, which was--
they never carried it
on, but apparently, they
are carrying it on,
because it's coming
on Showtime in a few weeks.
So we'll see.
>>REGINA: There was a lot
of symbolism in that film.
And there was something
else that was said.
It was another line
that kind of gave me
the chillies in that
one in the movie.
But one of them, this whole
thing about the left arm,
and the creepy little guy.
What did this mean?
The left arm was numb, you know?
>>WEIDNER: The left-hand
path, which was the dark path.
Right?
And Lynch went to
India, and he knows
all the lore and the
Vedic stories and things.
So you know, he's a
transcendental meditation
person.
And so he really--
to me, when I see David Lynch
and I see him on the set,
and he's chain smoking and
he's using the F bomb, like,
every other word,
and then I hear
that he does transcendental
meditation, dresses
all in white, and you
know, I'm like, this guy--
>>REGINA: He seems like he's
intrigued with both realms.
>>WEIDNER: He is.
This guy is "Twin Peaks."
This guy is the duality
that he's trying to show.
He's this dark kind of guy
who is attracted to the light.
And he wants to be in
the light, but it's
like the dark keeps
pulling him down.
>>REGINA: And in the
show, it showed it
well with these kind of
creepy, surreal, bleed-throughs
of the darker aspect of
each of the characters.
>>WEIDNER: Yes.
And that's very perceptive.
And each character
that you meet,
eventually, you discover
that they're not
the person-- even the Log
Lady isn't the person that you
thought she was, that she's
this philosophical lady.
Then you find out
she's also dark.
And also what "Twin
Peaks" did was
it opened the door to what
you might call high weirdness
or high strangeness.
In other words, the
general is abducted
and he's involved in
Project Blue Book,
and starting to bring in
now for the first time
some of these
alternative theories
and histories that people like
you and I, we're really into,
but they didn't do any TV
shows about them until this.
And then it became
all right after that
for these kind of subjects
to be talked about,
which gave really Chris Carter
permission to do "The X-Files."
Because he could not
have done "The X-Files"
if it hadn't been for David
Lynch doing "Twin Peaks," which
was really a precursor
to "The X-Files."
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I wanted to just share
that one line in there
before we hop on to something.
And that was Laura Palmer--
and I'm forgetting now
the exact scene,
but I think it had
to do with her cousin, friend,
the good part of her where
she said, "the angels
wouldn't help you
because they've all gone away."
>>WEIDNER: Yes.
That's the theme
of "Twin Peaks."
"The angels wouldn't help you
because they've all gone away."
>>REGINA: I find his
work unredemptively dark.
I mean, I can't find any
redemptive qualities.
It shows you what the dark is.
But again, I'm having the
same problem and struggle
with the whole
notion of conspiracy.
And I don't even like
the word conspiracy.
Darker agendas in general.
Which is, yes, he
can make you aware
these dark realms
exist, and you can
be made uncomfortable
and kind of sick
to your stomach
watching his films.
What's the point?
Really, as a human being,
as a woman human being,
what is the point?
I don't get it anymore.
Because if you cannot take away
something that you can have
some sort of action plan or
point to, what is the point
anymore?
>>WEIDNER: Well, I think
he has a very good point.
I used to think that
he didn't have a point,
but I think he has a
very, very good point.
I think he feels sorry for
people like Laura Palmer.
I think he feels
terrible for them,
that there's these people that
are being sexually exploited
by adults, and he hates it.
The same thing's true
in "Inland Empire,"
his last film that he did.
Laura Dern is an actress, and
she's being horribly exploited
by Hollywood throughout
the whole film
in satanic and disgusting ways.
And you can tell
that David Lynch
feels for these performers.
>>REGINA: So this
is just revelation.
But again, it's revelation
whereas in "Chinatown,"
this is Chinatown, there's
nothing you can do about it.
>>WEIDNER: Nothing you can do.
>>REGINA: That's the part
that I have a hard time with.
>>WEIDNER: And they are very
cynical films, I have to admit.
"Chinatown's" a
very cynical film,
and David Lynch makes
some very cynical films.
"Mulholland Drive" perhaps
is the most cynical.
What's interesting
about "Mulholland Drive"
is, again, he's
portraying how actors
are exploited by Hollywood, OK?
What's interesting about
"Mulholland Drive" is,
again, we have two characters.
We have Betty and Diane.
Naomi Watts played
the Betty character,
and she also played
the Diane character.
Through the movie, Betty
shows up in Hollywood, right?
And it's like Dorothy
in "The Wizard of Oz."
And she's all light and
perfect, and she's from Ontario,
I think.
And for two hours, she and her
friend, who's also her lover,
do kind of an investigation
into a murder in Hollywood.
OK?
And then all of
the sudden, which
is the most outrageous
thing I think
I've ever seen in a
movie, at about two hours
into the movie, Betty, the
nice, beautiful blonde, who's
having this affair with
this other woman, wakes up,
and she's now Diane.
She's a completely
different person.
And I started watching the movie
again for Hollywood Decoded,
and I thought to myself, what
is going on in this movie?
And then I realized
that Diane is
the failed actress who came
to Hollywood, much like Betty,
all naive.
And she's a failed actress,
and she's creating a fantasy
about this big movie star,
that she's her friend,
she's her lover,
she's equal with her,
she's as good an actress as her.
Because remember, she
goes to the tryout,
and she's really good in
the love scene, right?
She's, like, great
tryout, and she
should have been a great actor.
But it's all a fantasy, and
the whole thing is a fantasy.
And believe me, as someone who
worked in Hollywood for years,
those people live
in a fantasy world.
They really, truly do.
And she is a casualty
of Hollywood.
And that's what
that movie's about.
And so he has a
deep yearning and, I
think, a sadness for
especially the women that
come to Hollywood,
thinking that they're
going to become big stars
that are just exploided--
>>REGINA: So maybe we can
use these films as alerts.
>>WEIDNER: They are.
They're alerts.
Let's go another
direction entirely.
Among the films that you
and Jay will be looking at,
are there some that do have
redemptive qualities at the end
to them?
Any?
Tell us a couple.
I know you're
tapping your fingers.
Let me see.
>>WEIDNER: Yes.
There are a lot, actually.
We're going to be covering
the corporate takeover of life
in "Blade Runner" and in
"Alien," because in "Alien,"
the corporation wants to
take the alien back to Earth
and use it, weaponize it.
But they're stopped by
the regular working men,
by Sigourney Weaver.
>>REGINA: This is good
>>WEIDNER: All right?
Yeah and she stops
the corporation
from doing the evil.
The same thing with
Deckard in "Blade Runner."
He becomes having
feelings for the androids.
Maybe even he's an android.
It's kind of implied
that maybe, possibly he's
a robot too at the end.
So there are redemptive ones.
"Minority Report"
by Steven Spielberg.
You know, predictive
programming is not a good idea.
We do not want to arrest
someone for a crime they
haven't committed.
>>REGINA: Right.
A thought crime.
>>WEIDNER: Thought crime.
Exactly.
So there are not as
many as I would like,
but I think Jay and I both have
a little bit of a dark view
possibly of the world.
But the world is a dark place.
>>REGINA: It's
also a light place.
Throw a couple light ones in for
me that point us at least back
that direction.
[LAUGH]
>>WEIDNER: I'll
think about that.
That's a good point, though.
I hadn't thought about that.
I will think about that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Because there comes
a point where,
again, this being alerted--
and like you said, you
have spent years and years
rolling around in
what has previously
been called conspiracy theory,
which is simply dark agendas.
And I came to a point
personally where I thought, OK.
Enough.
Now I want to take my attention
toward lifting the game back
up, because people
are so depressed
and already feel so
overwhelmed and powerless
at this point in time.
I mean, sitting right now
where we are in history
is probably the most
powerless I've ever seen
at least the American society.
But this isn't just
the American culture.
This same wave of
nationalism and racism
and corporate takeover,
fascism is actually--
it's a planetary
happening, so to speak.
It's not just in this country.
>>WEIDNER: I would say
it's always been here.
It's always been there.
>>REGINA: It's just-- it's
rising up from underneath
and becoming more apparent
so people can't ignore it.
Would you say that--
which requires action.
>>WEIDNER: Here's the
way I look at it, OK?
This is going to come
as kind of a shock,
I think, to a lot of people.
If you have central heating and
central hot water, guess what?
You're richer than 99.99%--
>>REGINA: That is
absolutely true.
>>WEIDNER: --of all the
humans that have ever lived.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>WEIDNER: Right?
So you've got to take
a perspective here.
You have all the knowledge
ever made at your fingertips,
right now.
All right?
20 years ago, I had
to go to a library
to find all this stuff out.
It would take me hours and days.
Now it takes just minutes.
So I'm actually quite
optimistic about the world.
And I think we're arguing--
there's fewer wars now
than there's ever been.
Did you know that?
There's fewer wars
going on, fewer people
being killed right now
by violence and war
than has ever happened.
OK?
In known human history, OK?
People have more food now--
obesity is the epidemic we're
fighting, not starvation.
Which, 100 years ago,
it was starvation.
Ireland starved to death.
That's one of the
reasons my family came
to America, to escape the
great Irish starvation.
And so I think that--
I think things are a lot
better than we think they are.
>>REGINA: Well, in that sense,
you're absolutely right.
And I do agree.
Again, because I'm looking at
it more from a spiritual point
of view, we have what appears
to be insanity around us,
simply because it's
being allowed to come
to the surface in full view.
Which I think is a
good thing, because it
allows us something to respond
to and make our choices from.
And I do agree with you also
that we're at the kindest point
in a lot of ways-- since
maybe Atlantian times--
we've ever been in.
We're not as brutal as human
beings, as we have been.
>>WEIDNER: And a lot
of that, by the way--
I should get back to what we
were talking about before.
When my generation
came back from Vietnam
and started making movies,
we said, you know what?
When a guy gets shot in the
gut, a little trickle of blood
doesn't flow out, and he
falls over like Gary Cooper.
His guts fall out, all right?
We're going to
start showing that.
We're going to start showing
things as they really are.
We're tired of this kind
of pristine view of war
and violence that
Hollywood had been doing.
And I think that that made
war less appealing to men
especially.
>>REGINA: I mean, there
was a lot of-- there
was a lot of, obviously, public
protest that actually had
an effect on ending that
war, because we saw it
for the first time on the news.
>>WEIDNER: That's exactly right.
We saw the blood.
We saw the guys holding
their guts in on TV.
And we said, you know,
this is horrifying.
I don't want to ever be
involved in anything like this.
And I think it went a
long way to stopping war.
I think they try to
make war cleaner now,
like a bomb from an airplane
so that your guys don't
get hit or anything.
But even that, when
we see the dead bodies
on the ground, the shrapnel,
even that makes us all sick.
And the internet's
showing us the stuff too.
So every day, we're seeing
the world as it really is.
Not the way that the puppeteers
are trying to make it.
>>REGINA: And that's
really what you and Jay are
trying to do with this series.
>>WEIDNER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Can you show us where
the light realms, just one
time, interface and are, like,
hooking us up the other way
maybe?
>>WEIDNER: Well, I think
the greatest, optimistic,
light-filled film of all time
is "2001: A Space Odyssey."
>>REGINA: Well,
that was, indeed.
>>WEIDNER: In which the whole
human race is transformed
into a higher being.
And the fact that the military
industrial complex could
finance this film, and then
Kubrick using their money
to dutifully stick it back
to them, that's just look--
because Kubrick loved that--
>>REGINA: There you go.
We need more of that.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
We need to stick
it to them more.
[LAUGH]
>>REGINA: OK.
On that note, thank you so much.
It's been a romp of
an hour with you.
And good luck on the new series.
>>WEIDNER: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Again, the new Gaia
show starring Jay and Jay,
Hollywood Decoded.
Meanwhile, you can
watch my interview
with Jay Dyer in
the Gaia archives.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[THEME MUSIC]